# C# - Exceptions

    Exceptions are types that all ultimately derive from `System.Exception`.<br>
    Use a `try` block around the statements that might throw exceptions.<br>
    Once an exception occurs in the try block, the flow of control jumps to the first associated exception handler that is present anywhere in the call stack. In C#, the `catch` keyword is used to define an exception handler.<br>
    If no exception handler for a given exception is present, the program stops executing with an error message.<br>
    Don't catch an exception unless you can handle it and leave the application in a known state. If you catch System.Exception, rethrow it using the throw keyword at the end of the catch block.<br>
    If a catch block defines an exception variable, you can use it to obtain more information about the type of exception that occurred.<br>
    Exceptions can be explicitly generated by a program by using the throw keyword.<br>
    Exception objects contain detailed information about the error, such as the state of the call stack and a text description of the error.<br>
    Code in a finally block is executed regardless of if an exception is thrown. Use a finally block to release resources, for example to close any streams or files that were opened in the try block.<br>

    
    __try__ – A try block is used to encapsulate a region of code. If any code throws an exception within that try block, the exception will be handled by the corresponding catch.<br>
    __catch__ – When an exception occurs, the Catch block of code is executed. This is where you are able to handle the exception, log it, or ignore it.<br>
    __finally__ – The finally block allows you to execute certain code if an exception is thrown or not. For example, disposing of an object that must be disposed of.
    __throw__ – The throw keyword is used to actually create a new exception that is the bubbled up to a try catch finally block.<br>

    ## Programmers should throw exceptions when one or more of the following conditions are true:
    * The method can't complete its defined functionality. For example, if a parameter to a method has an invalid value:
    ```
    static void CopyObject(SampleClass original)
{
    _ = original ?? throw new ArgumentException("Parameter cannot be null", nameof(original));
}
    ```
    * An inappropriate call to an object is made, based on the object state. One example might be trying to write to a read-only file. In cases where an object state doesn't allow an operation, throw an instance of __InvalidOperationException__.<br>
    * When an argument to a method causes an exception. In this case, the original exception should be caught and an __ArgumentException__ instance should be created.


